V0.7.x updated (#47)
WalletConnect/walletconnect: auth/session-proposal-overview.md

# Session proposal overview:
Let's say a dapp wants access to Ethereum Mainnet, Polygon, Cosmos Mainnet.

> It issues required methods and events for specific blockchains in form of  proposal namespaces. For example Ethereum Mainnet and Polygon it requires: `eth_sign` method and `accountsChanged` event, and for Cosmos Mainnet it requires: `cosmos_signDirect` method and `someCosmosEvent` event. Let's say that Polygon also has special method `personalSign` and event `chainChanged` not available for Ethereum Mainnet. Dapp can request those only for Polygon via `extensions` field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It specifies the proposed execution environment for each blockchain in the form of namespaces. For example, for Ethereum Mainnet and Polygon, it requires: `eth_sign` method and `accountsChanged` event, and, for Cosmos Mainnet, it requires: `cosmos_signDirect` method and `someCosmosEvent` event. Let's say that Polygon also has a special method `personalSign` and an event `chainChanged` not available in Ethereum Mainnet. The Dapp can require chain-exclusive parameters via the `extensions` field. 
```

## Example proposal namespaces request

```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains":["eip155:137"],
                "method":["personalSign"],
                "events":["chainChanged"]
            }
        ]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```

> Wallet then validates if recieved proposal namespaces are valid. If they are not valid then session cannot be established and wallet rejects it with `1006` code that tells the Dapp the proposal namespaces are invalid. If they are valid then Wallet decides if it should approve the proposal.

Reviewer 2: @jakobuid What do you think about this? I've also added `case .invalidSessionProposeRequest: return 1006` to `auth/error-codes.md`

Reviewer 3: Ya, I like this.
Just being curious what other @WalletConnect/sdk-team members think about it.

Previously, we've been showing the session proposal to the user without any validation but now we could change it to show only those which are valid.
If the namespace in the session proposal is invalid, we could send the internal error code to a Dapp (`case .invalidSessionProposeRequest: return 1006`) and do not show session proposal to the user.

Obviously, this doesn't mean that we should omit namespaces validation when approving session. It should be done regardless.

What do you think guys?

Reviewer 4: We have it set up in js like this

1. If at any point users pass invalid params (so session, pairing etc... objects) client will throw an error. This way it is up to dapp devs to resolve the issue. Nothing gets sent to relay / persisted.

2. Same happens when incoming request payload is invalid, we just don't emit an event and instead log error (so it is silent on wallet side).

Reviewer 3: If there's malicious Dapp, there is no check of namespaces before sending a proposal to a wallet. Hence, imo we should add such validation internally on wallet side, when wallet receives session proposal.

If namespaces in session proposal are invalid, wallet sends JsonRpcError to the Dapp OR log error silently as you suggested.

> Wallet then validates if recieved proposal namespaces are valid. If they are not valid then session cannot be established and wallet rejects it with `1006` code that tells the Dapp the proposal namespaces are invalid. If they are valid then Wallet decides if it should approve the proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet then validates if the received proposal namespaces are valid. If they are not valid, then the session cannot be established and the Wallet rejects it with a `1006` code that tells the Dapp that the proposal namespaces are invalid. If they are valid, then the Wallet if free to decide whether to approve the proposal, or reject it.
```

> Wallet then validates if recieved proposal namespaces are valid. If they are not valid then session cannot be established and wallet rejects it with some special reason and code that tells the Dapp the proposal namespaces are invalid (TODO: Define reason and code) . If they are valid then Wallet decides if it should approve the proposal.

Reviewer 2: @jakobuid Does this look better? If yes, can you help me with defining reason and code? Do we have such code defined somewhere?

Reviewer 3: Ya, it looks better now.
In terms of error code, I'd say: `case .invalidSessionProposeRequest: return 1006`

> If Wallet doesn't approve then session is rejected. Otherwise, Wallet responds with slighly different structure than proposal namespaces called session namespaces. Instead of list of `chains` it has list of `accounts` that approves given methods and events. If wallet approves session proposal it needs to accept all methods and events in every proposal namespace. If Wallet wants it can give permissions for more methods and events than requested, but never less.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Wallet (or the user) does NOT approve the session, then it is rejected. Otherwise, the Wallet responds with a slightly different namespace schema: session namespaces. Instead of having a list of `chains`, it has list of `accounts` compatible with the given methods and events. If the Wallet approves a session proposal, it needs to accept all methods and events of all proposal namespaces. If needed, the Wallet can add permissions for more methods and events than the ones requested, but never less.
```

## Example session namespaces response
``` json
{
    "eip155":{
        "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "accounts":["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
                "method":["personalSign"],
                "events":["chainChanged"]
            }
        ]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "accounts": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect", "personal_sign"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent", "proofFinalized"]
    }
}
```

> Dapp then validates if recieved session namespaces are valid for requested proposal namespaces. If they are valid then session is established. If they are not valid then session cannot be established.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dapp then validates if the received session namespaces comply with the requested proposal namespaces. If so, the session is established / settled. If not, the session is not established and MUST delete all related cached data.
```

---
### 2.1. Session namespaces MUST NOT have accounts empty
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "cosmos": {
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "cosmos": {
        "accounts": [],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Proposal namespace doesn't have any accounts, hence it's invalid

---
### 2.2. Session namespaces addresses MUST be CAIP-10 compliant
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: `0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb` is not CAIP-10 compliant.
`eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb` is CAIP-10 compliant

---

> ### 2.3. Session namespaces MUST accept all methods and events

Reviewer: If we mean to use this as a guide for test cases, I believe it's useful to split this point into 2, so that methods and events validation can be tested separately and in isolation

Reviewer 2: Good call! I will add test case **2.13.** for events and change this one to only test methods

# Session proposal overview:
Let's say a dapp wants access to Ethereum Mainnet, Polygon, Cosmos Mainnet.
It issues required methods and events for specific blockchains in form of  proposal namespaces. For example Ethereum Mainnet and Polygon it requires: `eth_sign` method and `accountsChanged` event, and for Cosmos Mainnet it requires: `cosmos_signDirect` method and `someCosmosEvent` event. Let's say that Polygon also has special method `personalSign` and event `chainChanged` not available for Ethereum Mainnet. Dapp can request those only for Polygon via `extensions` field. 

## Example proposal namespaces request

```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains":["eip155:137"],
                "method":["personalSign"],
                "events":["chainChanged"]
            }
        ]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```

> Wallet then validates if recieved proposal namespaces are valid. If they are not valid then session cannot be established and is rejected. If they are valid then Wallet decides if it should approve the proposal.

Reviewer 3: Could you elaborate on what you mean by saying: "Wallet then validates if received proposal namespaces are valid"?

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't wallet perform validation only when approving a session proposal?

Reviewer 2: > Could you elaborate on what you mean by saying: "Wallet then validates if received proposal namespaces are valid"?

Before any approval, I reckon we need to verify if proposal namespaces are valid. If the wallet receives malformed proposal namespaces its unable to approve session and respond with valid session namespaces.

Reviewer 3: Ya, make sense. Therefore, wallet should respond internally with proper error code to let the Dapp know that it sent invalid namespaces.

Reviewer 2: Exactly my initial thought. I will rephrase the docs so it is clear.

---
### 1.1. Proposal namespaces mustn't have chains empty
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": [],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Proposal namespace doesn't have any chains, hence it's invalid

---
### 1.2. Chains must be CAIP-2 compliant
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["42"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: `42` is not CAIP-2 compliant. `eip155:42` is CAIP-2 compliant.

---

### 1.3. Proposal namespace can have no methods and events 
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

---
### 1.4. TODO: Different origin blockchains can be defined in one namespace
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "someSpecialKey":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4", "bip122:12a765e31ffd4059bada1e25190f6e98", "cosmos:Binance-Chain-Tigris"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": ["chainChanged"]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No?

Reviewer 3: **1.4.**
It depends on what you mean by `"someSpecialKey"`. Imo for eip155 namespace we should keep only eip155 chains, for cosmos only cosmos chains etc. 
So at least for now (beta100) it shouldn't be allowed.

Reviewer 5: imo definitely not. from caip-2:
```
chain_id:    namespace + ":" + reference
namespace:   [-a-z0-9]{3,8}
reference:   [-a-zA-Z0-9]{1,32}
```
I understand it like `someSpecialKey` must be a `namespace` from caip-2 chain id
and Namespace(our new structure) chains are caip-2s with "parent" chain_id namespace
so chain_id/namespace must be equal in all chains

---

### 1.5. TODO: Blockchain can be in mutliple namespaces
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:10"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": []
    },
    "someSpecialKey":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
        "events": []
    }

> }

Reviewer 3: **1.5.**
Again, it depends on what you mean by `"someSpecialKey"`. 
That's why we introduced extensions, to have a special method among one namespace for given chain.
Hence, imo `1.5` is invalid.

Reviewer 5: agree, invalid

        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": [],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:137"],
                "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
            },
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:1"],
                "events": ["chainChanged"],
            },
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:10"],
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

Note: First extension is missing `events` field but remains valid. Second extensions is missing `methods` field but remains valid. Third extensions only has `chains` field but due to `method` and `events` field being optional it remains valid, even though it has no logical value. 

---

### 1.8. One invalid namespace makes whole request invalid
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": []
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": [],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Even though, the first proposal namespace is valid the second being invalid makes whole proposal invalid

---

> Czy dodawać walidacje tego co jest wewntarz przestrzeni?? eip155 musi jedynie zawierac eip155:42 itp?

Reviewer 3: Should be removed :)

## Non-controller side validation of incoming proposal namespaces (Dapp)
---
### 2.1. Session namespaces mustn't have accounts empty
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "cosmos": {
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "cosmos": {

>         "chains": [],

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        "accounts": [],
```

        "eip155:1:0x2Fe1cC9b1DCe6E8e16C48bc6A7ABbAB3d10DA954",
        "eip155:1:0xEA674fdDe714fd979de3EdF0F56AA9716B898ec8",
        "eip155:1:0xEB2F31B0224222D774541BfF89A221e7eb15a17E"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

---

### 2.6. Session namespaces can extend methods and events of proposal namespaces
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign", "personalSign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged", "someEvent"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

---

### 2.7. TODO: Multiple accounts from different origin in one namespace
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "someSpecialKey": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]

>     }

Reviewer 3: **2.7.**
Same as above. But I might missing some insights where mixing chains is possible.

Reviewer 2: To iterate over your comment. Should we add rule saying: `All chains in the namespace MUST contain the namespace prefix`? 

Valid example:
```json
{
    "sthWeird": {
        "chains": ["sthWeird:chainReference"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Invalid example:

```json
{
    "sthWeird": {
        "chains": ["sthElse:chainReference"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think we should add such rule, because otherwise we could end up having chains not related to actual namespace.

Reviewer 6: I agree, the key must exist in the chain and account info

}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "someSpecialKey": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes/No?

---

### 2.8. TODO: Session namespaces can/musn't contain accounts from chains not defined in proposal namespaces
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:42:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 3: **2.8.**
If we assume that requested proposal namespaces are min requirements, it is valid then.

Reviewer 5: agree

---

### 2.9. Proposal namespace and session namespaces must have matching namespaces
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }

```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "someSpecialKey": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb","eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign", "cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged", "someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 3: **2.9.**
Imo it's invalid. We should keep the same structure of requested and received namespaces.

Reviewer 6: Maybe we make it a requirement that the Session Namespaces must contain at least the same keys as the Proposal Namespaces

Reviewer 5: that `someSpecialKey` is so confusing xd

I would remove all the test cases with `someSpecialKey` or leave at most once to show that is forbidden to mix chains in namespaces

---

### 2.10. TODO: Merging proposal namespaces into one, logically correct, session namespace (Only if 2.9 is valid)
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent"]
    }

```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "someSpecialKey": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb","eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign", "cosmos_signDirect"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged", "someCosmosEvent"]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 3: **2.10.**
Imo we should avoid such merging, for me it creates confusion.

Reviewer 5: would remove this test case as well as it has the same exclusion

---

### 2.11. TODO: Expanding proposal namespaces into multiple, logically correct, session namespace (Only if 2.9 is valid)
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```

Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    },
    "eip155ButBetter":{
        "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 3: **2.11.**
Same, I think we should avoid decomposition of the same namespace.

Reviewer 5: would remove test case

---

### 2.12. TODO: Extensions merged with to namespace
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:137", "eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions":[
            {
                "chains": ["eip155:137"],
                "methods": ["personalSign"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign", "personalSign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 3: **2.12.**
I think that the reason of having extensions is to actually highlight the difference between chains. Once merging them we reduce the importance of extensions.

Reviewer 2: I see your point. But the namespace is still logically valid. Session namespaces gave access to all requested methods/events/chains. The Dapp asked for `personalSign` only for `eip155:137` however, the wallet gave `personalSign` method permission to `eip155:1` as well.

I don't think we reduce the importance of extensions because this approach should not be encouraged. But making this test case invalid goes against our idea that the wallet can approve what he wants but MUST at least approve proposal namespaces. 
 
Thinking about it gave birth to 2.14, 2.15, 2.16. Be sure to check those out as well.

Reviewer 3: Ok, after your explanation I can confirm that's valid. You're right saying that wallet sending above session namespaces conforms the requested namespace, and because the fact that it's controller it could add `personalSign` to `eip155:1` as well.

Reviewer 6: But we have an issue with the structure. The Proposal has an extension but the Session is missing the extension. I believe this would make Session Namespace invalid. I think that adding to the general methods is fine but if there are extensions requested by the Dapp, the Wallet must also respond with extensions

Reviewer 5: scope is bigger than required so IMO **valid**

Reviewer 2: I marked it as valid.

        "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes/No?

---

### 1.6. Proposal namespaces extensions MUST NOT have chains empty
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": [],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains" : [],
                "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Proposal namespace extension doesn't have any chains, hence it's invalid

---

### 1.7. Extensions method and events are OPTIONAL
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137", "eip155:10"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": [],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:137"],
                "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
            },
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:1"],
                "events": ["chainChanged"],
            },
            {
                "chains" : ["eip155:10"],
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

> Note: First extension is missing `events` field but remains valid. Second extensions is missing `methods` field but remains valid. Third extensions only has `chains` field but due to `method` and `events` field being optional it remains valid, even though it has no logical value. 

Reviewer 6: So we decided that methods and events cannot be optional and the default state is an empty array

Reviewer 2: Thanks for noticing! Remade the test case

---

### 1.8. All namespaces MUST be valid
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": []
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "chains": [],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Even though, the first proposal namespace is valid the second being invalid makes whole proposal invalid

---

> ## Non-controller side validation of incoming proposal namespaces (Dapp)

Reviewer 6: This is the first instance of Non-Controller used in the doc. Should we replace all instances of wallet/dapp with controller/non-controller?

Reviewer 2: I did not see the need to update the overview.

```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: `chainChanged` event is missing in the session namespace 

---

### 2.14. TODO: Session namespaces extensions MAY/MUST NOT extend methods and events of proposal namespaces extensions
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": ["chainChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains": ["eip155:137"],
                "methods": ["eth_sign"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb","eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": ["chainChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
                "methods": ["eth_sign", "personalSign"],
                "events": ["accountsChanged"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 6: I think this is valid. It follows the same logic as well the general methods array

Reviewer 5: imo valid

---

### 2.15. TODO: Session namespaces extensions MAY/MUST NOT contain accounts from chains not defined in proposal namespaces extensions
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains": ["eip155:137"],
                "methods": ["personalSign"],
                "events": ["accountsChainged"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:42:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
                "methods": ["personalSign"],
                "events": ["accountsChainged"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 6: I think this is also valid. Wallet is giving more permissions than requested which is allowed

Reviewer 5: To me it does not make sense. technically it extends a chain `eip155:42` that is not in a basic scope. I do not think we need such accurate validation of Namespaces and it does not need to throw but IMO it is not correct or at least not something anyone want to use.

Reviewer 2: Marked it valid.

---

### 2.16. TODO: Session namespaces MAY/MUST NOT add extensions not defined in proposal namespaces extensions
Requested proposal namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"]
    }
}
```
Received session namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155": {
        "accounts": ["eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
                "methods": ["personalSign"],
                "events": ["accountsChainged"]
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

> Is valid?: Yes/No

Reviewer 6: I think this is also allowed. Wallet can add anything as long as it meets the minimum requirements of the Proposal Namespace

Reviewer 5: `accountsChainged` is unnecessary in the extension so it extends nothing, I would say it is incorrect but not necessarily a reason to throw an error.

Reviewer 2: Marked it valid.

## Example Session Namespaces response
``` json
{
    "eip155":{
        "accounts": ["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb", "eip155:1:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
        "methods": ["eth_sign"],
        "events": ["accountsChanged"],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "accounts":["eip155:137:0xab16a96d359ec26a11e2c2b3d8f8b8942d5bfcdb"],
                "method":["personalSign"],
                "events":["chainChanged"]
            }
        ]
    },
    "cosmos":{
        "accounts": ["cosmos:cosmoshub-4:cosmos1t2uflqwqe0fsj0shcfkrvpukewcw40yjj6hdc0"],
        "methods": ["cosmos_signDirect", "personal_sign"],
        "events": ["someCosmosEvent", "proofFinalized"]
    }
}
```

The Dapp then validates if the received Session Namespaces comply with the requested Proposal Namespaces. If so, the session is established / settled. If not, the session is not established and MUST delete all related cached data.

# Validation test cases

> ## Controller side validation of incoming Proposal Namespaces (Wallet)

Reviewer 6: @Elyniss Instead of making this the logic done on the wallet side, it would be better to make the Dapp does this validation before even sending the namespace to the wallet

Reviewer 6: client should validate peer's namespaces to protect against malicious peers

---

### 1.3. Proposal namespace methods and events MAY be empty
Requested Proposal Namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1"],
        "methods": [],
        "events": []
    }
}
```
Is valid?: Yes

---

### 1.4. All chains in the namespace MUST contain the namespace prefix
Requested Proposal Namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "cosmos:cosmoshub-4"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": ["chainChanged"]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: `cosmos:cosmoshub-4` does not contain `eip155` prefix

Throw Message: `Chains must be defined in matching namespace`

---

### 1.5. Extension MUST NOT have chains empty
Requested Proposal Namespaces:
```json
{
    "eip155":{
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
        "methods": ["personalSign"],
        "events": [],
        "extensions": [
            {
                "chains" : [],
                "methods": ["eth_getAccounts"],
                "events": []
            }
        ]
    }
}
```
Is valid?: No

Note: Proposal namespace extension doesn't have any chains, hence it's invalid

Throw Message: `Chains must not be empty`

---

> ### 1.6. Extension methods field is REQUIRED

Reviewer: By "required", do you mean only non-null or also non-empty? An array field can be required and still be empty. (Same question for events field, `1.7`)

Reviewer 2: Events and methods can be empty. They must not be null or nonexistent.
